Variables in Go can be
defined a few different ways.
I'm gonna start working most of
the code examples in a actual Go file.
I think the syntax highlighting
is a little bit more helpful.
Feel free to stay in the playground
if that's where you find happiness.
So let's talk about how
variables are defined.
I'm in the third directory
called basic syntax.
And we're looking at
the variables.go file.
And so for right now, the only thing in
here is my fem to print line variables
line to get going.
But the first thing I wanna do is,
I wanted to find a variable that kind of
the same way we saw it in the types slide.
And so to do that,
we're using the keyword var,
whatever we want the name of our variable
to be the type we know it will be forever,
and then whatever we want
to assign that value to.
And then if I go ahead and
Println(name), I'll hop
down to my terminal here and then I go
run, we're in package 03_basic_syntax,
Code, and then variables.go.
Make sure you save your file.
And then you'll see that
Beyonce prints to the console.
Go does have inference though.
And so right now,
you can see that the value on
the right-hand side is actually a string.
So I can kill this here and Go will
know to look to the right-hand side and
be like,
is this an easily identifiable type?
If so, you can leave out
the actual type definition.
So if I save this and rerun the program,
you'll still see Beyonce.
There are no errors.
Everyone is happy.
A third kinda type of variable declaration
I'd like to discuss is without
an actual value.
So in this case, this is kind of
similar to using that in JavaScript.
So I'm saying that, hey,
I want to carve out space for a variable.
I know my variable is going
to be a string down the road.
Not sure what that is yet, but just kind
of hang on to it so I can use it later.
In this case, because there is nothing on
the right-hand side of that assignment
operator, the equal sign, we do have
to specify the type names that Go knows
what kind of type it's going to
allocate that space for down the road.
Cool, so if I save this and now ask
what name is, you're gonna see nothing.
You're gonna see this
like blank space here.
And behind the scenes, Go actually assigns
default values to any variable that's been
instantiated without a value.
So if I say, someNumber is going to be
an int, and I print some number here,
We get a really helpful error.
Name is declared and not used.
So this is part of why Go
is both super helpful and
also can be a little bit more
type A compared to JavaScript.
So right now, we have this
variable that we haven't used yet.
I might want to use down the road but
Go won't let me keep that code in there
if I'm not going to use it immediately.
So options are to delete it.
I'm gonna comment it out for now.
And then when I run this code again,
my some number variable which
is assigned to an integer but
has no value is automatically
assigned a default value of zero.
And this is also goes way of
kind of allocating memory.
If you know it's going to be an integer,
I'm going to put a placeholder
in there for you.
Integer values get zero,
strings get an empty string,
Boolean is get false, and
floats get kind of 0.0.
So as we kinda work through stuff,
if you're just holding a placeholder with
a variable, it'll always have that
default value behind the scenes.
Additionally with this var syntax,
this type of variable declaration can
also happen outside of a function.
So here if I want my var
name to go back to Beyonce,
I can still access that within my program.
Similarly to JavaScript, if I want to
assign multiple variables at the same
time, I can have two variable names on the
left-hand side of the assignment operator
here, and a comma separated
list of whoever on the right.
And if I wanted to print both.
You'll see that both of those names
are saved as variables and printed out.
And then the fifth type here is
gonna be the most common, and
it is a short hand syntax.
And to do that, we're going to be back
in our function main, this can't happen
outside of functions, so it has to be
within some sort of function block.
[COUGH] And
it's gonna look something like this.
So we can drop that variable keyword,
the var, and
we can drop the type name assuming that
it has a value on the right-hand side.
And a colon,
equal sign both assigns the variable,
associates it with a type without
needing a lot of the extra boilerplate.
So you'll see this most of
the time throughout the day.